# Guidelines for Improving Productivity, Inventory, Turnover Rate, and Level of Defects in Manufacturing Industry 

## Abstract   
This study used snowball sampling from 40 manufacturing companies in Thailand. The majority of the said companies, 20, were in plastic industry, followed by electric and electronic industry, garment and textile industry, food and beverage industry, automotive industry, and construction industry, with the number of companies accounting for 10, 4, 3, 2, and 1 respectively. The results showed that 13 companies were large, 13 companies were medium, and 14 companies were small. In addition, 19 plastic companies were original equipment manufacturers while the only other one produced its own brand. Meanwhile, 9 electric/electronic companies produced their own brands and were original equipment manufacturers but the only one in this field produced only its own brand. All of garment and textile, automotive, and construction companies were original equipment manufacturer companies. Employees who operated machines had performance at 80-90%. In contrast, other departments which were not concerning with machine, such as finishing, assembling and packing, did not have their performance measured. Plastic companies operated 7 days with 24 hours, especially injection machine department, with 2 or 3 shifts while other industries worked 6 days with 8-11 hours per day. Defect rate was controlled by customer at 2-3%. Raw material inventory was 7-30 days. Work in process inventory was 1-3 days. Meanwhile, finished goods inventory was 1-30 days. Turnover rate was 5-10%. The company should measure the performance in all departments to know strengths and weaknesses; and then create a project to improve productivity with suppliers, employees, and customers involvement such as 5S, QCC, Kaizen, TPM, TQM, ISO, SPC, and lean manufacturing system. The company should create work instructions in Thai, Burmese, Cambodian or Laos to reduce communication issues. Since small but frequent orders were not worthwhile to set up manufacture frequently, the companies determined to produce high volume at one time, leading to high level of inventory. Thus, the company should focus more on forecast and negotiation to avoid dead stock. The company should understand its employees to maintain current employees and at the same time create attractive welfare to attract prospect employees. Company qualified for quality, cost, and delivery will survive in fierce competition. According to the establishment of AEC, there are opportunities to create its own brand, and relocate to border areas of AEC customers. 
 
## Introduction 
Currently, globalization makes communication free and borderless. In addition, as a result of an establishment of AEC (ASEAN Economic Community) in 2015, there has been a fierce competition in both domestic and international markets. Therefore, manufacturing companies need to seek strategies designed to increase productivity, reduce costs, improve quality, and reduce delivery lead time to customers, all of which require the cooperation of all parties from suppliers, subcontractors, employees, and management teams. The majority of manufacturers have selected continuous improvement programs as their main strategic initiatives to improve quality, customer service levels, and overall total value to their customers. 
DOI: 10.18488/picbsss.3/2015.3/3.69.74 
ISBN: 978-969-9952-04-3  
Handbook on Business Strategy and Social Sciences © 2015 Pak Publishing Group. All Rights Reserved. 
Labor productivity is critical to the competition. In addition, it can also increase sustainable revenue. Companies with higher costs will have lower competitiveness which leads to loss, and they finally have to withdraw from the business. Thailand labor productivity has increased by 2% per year which is very low when compared with other countries such as Vietnam and China with 4% and 10% of increase, respectively (Tansakul and Sutthiwatanaruputh, 2014). The unit labor costs of Thailand increased by 3% while those of Indonesia fell by 12% (Tansakul and Sutthiwatanaruputh, 2014). According to both low level of productivity and high level of unit labor costs, the competitiveness of Thailand is reduced. 
Inventory is one of the most expensive assets of many companies, representing as much as 50% of total invested capital. Managers have long recognized that good inventory management is crucial. In addition, a company can reduce costs by reducing inventory. On the other hand, production may stop and customers may become dissatisfied when an item is out of stock (Heizer and Render, 2014). 
To sum up, according to a low level in production, a high level of labor unit costs, and high level of inventory, employers need to create the improving program to improve productivity while reducing inventory, turnover rate, and  defects,  which will enhance company’s competitive advantage. 
 
## Literature Review 
### 2.1. Performance 
Performance analysis is a process used to evaluate the cost efficiency, reliability, and timeliness of corporate management and design. The purpose of performance analysis is to identify areas of improvement in company’s activities as well as to aid strategic decision making. This study is mainly concerned with performance, especially operational performance.   
Operational performance is related to organization’s internal operation such as productivity, quality of product, and customer satisfaction (Feng et al., 2007). It is typically assessed along with the dimension of percent returns (Frohlich and Westbrook, 2001; Rosenzweig et al., 2003; Poirier and Quinn, 2004) percent defects (Frohlich and Westbrook, 2001; Rosenzweig et al., 2003) delivery speed (Buzzell and Ortmeyer, 1995; Frohlich and Westbrook, 2001; Chen and Paulraj, 2004) production costs (Frohlich and Westbrook, 2001; Rosenzweig et al., 2003; Chen and Paulraj, 2004; Poirier and Quinn, 2004) production lead time (Buzzell and Ortmeyer, 1995; Frohlich and Westbrook, 2001; Rosenzweig et al., 2003) inventory turns (Frohlich and Westbrook, 2001; Zhu and Kraemer, 2002; Ranganathan et al., 2004) and flexibility (Rosenzweig et al., 2003; Chen and Paulraj, 2004). 
 
### 2.2. Productivity and Firm Performance 
Productivity is the ratio of outputs (goods and services) divided by the inputs (resources, such as labor and capital). The manager’s responsibility is to enhance the productivity because improving productivity means improving efficiency (Heizer and Render, 2014). 
Based on the microeconomic theory, the efficiency of production or economic performance is divided into two categories, i.e. technical performance and efficiency of resource allocation. Technical performance refers to a possible maximum output from the processing of minimal inputs. Meanwhile, the efficiency of resource allocation means a maximum of producing in which the manufacturers are satisfied with the matching of resources and objectives. In other words, the efficiency of resource allocation can be explained as the yield derived from using the lowest cost.  
Conventionally, a firm performance has been observed and measured in accounting words (Conant et al., 1990; Jennings and Samuel, 1994). However, the literature concerning with measurement of business performance (Lynch and Cross, 1991; Kaplan and Norton, 1992) proposed that managers prefer to locate relatively less importance on traditional financial performance’s measures, e.g. return on investment or net profits. It is consistent with Barros and Santos (2006) who proposed that firm performance be an outcome from the ability to use resources and CEO care for overall result of both finance and non-finance performance. In general, the word performance results in the leading position of measurements such as profit, cost and market share Laitinen (2002). Sink and Tuttle (1989) asserted that performance should not be dealt barely as a financial perspective. In addition, Li and Olorunniwo (2008) suggested that performance can be evaluated by non-financial performance such as efficiency, growth, and profit. 
The firm performance serves as a major link among the strategies, implementation and evaluation operations (Emmanuel et al., 1990; Haktanir and Harris, 2005). This is corresponding to Melia and Robinson (2010) who proposed that evaluating the firm performance is related to the strategy of the organization. Therefore, organizations need to set clear goals and rules to improve efficiency and move towards the achievement of the goals. In addition, many organizations believe that the performance evaluation can be conducted based on the implementation of any strategies. The reported performance will take place at all levels of the organization similar to financial report (Neely et al., 2002). 
Organizations, especially in the private sectors, must cope with tough competition and the need to survive and grow. While the external business environment comprises competitive forces, internal competency relies on limited resources. Recently, business executives and researchers have focused on investigating the relationship between competitive priorities and firm performance. Operational measures which are usually used as firm performance measures include productivity, quality, cost, timeliness, and accuracy (White et al., 1999; Ahmad and Schroeder, 2003; Hallgren, 2007; Kathuria et al., 2010). 
 
### 2.3. Inventory  
Managers around the globe have long recognized that good inventory management is crucial. The objective of inventory management is to strike a balance between inventory investment and customer service. Inventory can serve several functions that add flexibility to firm’s operations. There are four functions of inventory, i.e. separating various parts of the production process,   decoupling the company from fluctuations in demand and providing a stock of goods that will provide a selection for customers,  taking advantage of quantity discounts, and hedging against inflation and upwards price changes (Heizer and Render, 2014). 
To accommodate the functions of inventory, companies maintain four types of the following inventories. First, it is raw material inventory which has been purchased but not processed. The second type is work in process (WIP) inventory which refers to the components of raw materials that have undergone some change but are not completed. Third, maintenance-repair-operating (MROs) inventory is often a function of maintenance schedules, repair schedules, and other schedules. Finally, it is finished goods inventory which is the completed products awaiting for shipment or future customer demands (Heizer and Render, 2014). 
The number of works in process from overproduction affected the manufacturing process and production cost. Traditional concept focused on the overproduction or preproduction for a long time in order to get the lowest cost per unit regardless of thinking whether there will be a lot of work in process or not. The problems of overproduction include the loss of time and labor in unnecessary production, storage space, costs of moving, waste not being resolved immediately, sunk costs, and hidden production problems. 
 
### 2.4. Turnover Rate 
Turnover refers to the amount of movement of employees in and out of an organization, normally presented in terms of the turnover rate (Chruden and Sherman, 1972). Meanwhile, Mobley (1982) defined the meaning of employee turnover as the discontinuance of membership in an organization by the person who received monetary compensation from the organization. In addition, Tanke (2001) has defined turnover as the movement of employees out of the organization. All of the aforementioned turnover definitions by different scholars helped the researcher in concluding that the movements of employees, who received monetary compensation from the organization, by rotating around the labor market, between organizations, jobs and careers, are normally present in terms of the turnover rate. 
 
### 2.5. Level of Defects 
Product defects refer to anything that makes the product unsafe while using (Robinson, 2009) which may occur from many reasons. The first defect is a result of poorly designed or tested products, not enough or too little. The product does not function as it was designed. The second flaw is a result of production that is not correct, such as the wrong use of materials. Consequently, the production does not meet product specifications. The last one is incomplete guidelines on the practice, and inappropriate or incorrect warnings of the dangers.   
Defect rate refers to the ratio between the number of product defects, errors or defects which are harmful to total output. In some cases, it may be calculated as a percentage of the waste. If the waste is very small, the defect rate will be calculated on the amount of parts per million pieces (PPM). Meanwhile, as the service cannot be taken apart, it will count the number of defect per million opportunities (DPMO). 
 
### 2.6. Manufacturing Industry 
Manufacturing industry refers to those industries involved in the manufacturing and processing of items and indulge in either creation of new commodities or in value addition. The manufacturing industry accounts for a significant share of the industrial sector in developed countries. The final products can either serve as a finished good for sale to customers or as intermediate goods for use in the production process. 
The manufacturing industry is important to Thailand’s economy due to highest GDP in 2013. The majority of manufacturing industry consist of electric and electronics, chemicals, petroleum and petrochemicals, iron, automotive and automotive parts, plastic, shoes and leather, food and beverage, wood and furniture, tire and rubber, paper and publication, textile and garment, and cement (Office of the National Economic and Social Development Board, 2013). Regarding the above concept, thus, the sample population consisted of executives and managers working for manufacturing industry in Thailand. 
 
## 3. Research Methodology 
### 3.1. Samples and Procedures 
The design of this study is a qualitative approach which was done by using in depth interview by means of snowball sampling from 40 participants working as managing directors, executives, production and sale managers from 40 companies. The data collection was made from April to June, 2015. The data analysis was done by means of content analysis by 3 professionals working for industrial management and industrial engineer. 
 
## 4. Results 
The majority of the said companies, 20, were in plastic industry, followed by electric and electronic industry, garment and textile industry, food and beverage industry, automotive industry, and construction industry, with the number of companies accounting for 10, 4, 3, 2, and 1 respectively.  The results showed that 13 companies were large, 13 companies were medium, and 14 companies were small. The company with the age over 15 years accounted for 24 companies, followed by those with the age of 11-15 years, 6-10 years, and less than 5 years, which accounted for 7, 5, and 4 companies respectively. In addition, 19 plastic companies were original equipment manufacturers while the only other one produced its own brand. Meanwhile, 9 electric/electronic companies produced their own brand and were original equipment manufacturers but only one produced only its own brand. All of garment and textile, automotive, and construction were original equipment manufacturer companies. There were 21 companies that employed both Thai and foreign workers, such as Burmese, Cambodian, and Laos labors. Plastic companies, especially injection machine department, operated 7 days with 24 hours, with 2 or 3 shifts, while other industries worked 6 days with 8-11 hours per day.  
 
### 4.1. Productivity 
Considering medium and large companies, employees who operated machines had their performance at 80-90% based on the measurement by using cycle or takt time received from customers, or set standard time by using time and motion study. In contrast, the performance of other departments, such as finishing, assembling and packing, which were not concerning with machine, were not measured. Most of them were ISO 9001 qualified, guaranteeing the productivity control for all processes by using work instructions. On the other hand, small companies operating in fierce competition with small number of employees did not have enough resources to set and control performance measurement system; therefore, most of their performance was measured by using their owner or supervisor’s experiences. 
 
### 4.2. Inventory 
Regarding plastic industry, raw material inventory was a small amount due to the plastic resin prices, which had been changing frequently depending on market prices. Purchasing in bulk raw materials resulted in a risk of loss from the price difference. Moreover, the plastic resin had to be ordered from suppliers which were determined by customers, and the work in process was between 1-3 days. Most companies would assign employees, who controlled the injection molding machine, to finish pieces during the injection molding machine was running. Therefore, the WIP was small volume. Meanwhile, finished goods inventory was 3-30 days. Customers would give the annual forecasting but they would split orders into small ones on a weekly basis. Small but frequent order was not worthwhile to set up manufacture frequently; therefore, the companies determined to produce high volume at once, leading to high level of inventory. 
Meanwhile, raw material inventory for electric and electronic industry was very high because the companies needed to import raw materials from Germany, America, and Japan, the process of which took a long time for transportation.  Therefore, they selected to purchase in bulk raw materials, in order to avoid the shortage of materials. The raw material inventory was accounted for 30 days by average. There were many processes and more skilled workers were still required, which was the main problem for this industry. Therefore, the work in process inventory was high, about 7-15 days by average. Lastly, finished goods inventory was very small, between 0-3 days as customers wanted the products immediately or behind schedule. 
Considering garment and textile industry, raw material inventory was very high due to imported fabric and leather from foreign countries, such as America and Japan. In addition, companies needed to purchase materials from the suppliers, which were determined by customers. Therefore, suppliers had high level of bargaining power to ask maximum purchased volume, leading to high level of raw material inventory, accounted for 30 days by average. According to the incomplete performance measurement system, mixed between using standard time and supervisor experiences, the work in process was about 4-7 days. 
The finished goods inventory was 3 days by average due to the fixed 1-2 shipments per week. 
Meanwhile, raw material and work in process inventory for food and beverage was very low since it needed to be produced before being rotten, leading to 0-2 days inventory. In contrast, finished goods inventory was very high at 30 days by average due to the processing and containing into can or bottle and due to the seasonal demand. 
Considering automotive industry, companies controlled all inventories by using Toyota Production System (TPS), Kamban, just in time (JIT), and lean manufacturing system; therefore, all inventories were 2-3 days by average.  
 
### 4.3. Level of Defects  
Defect rate for all industry was controlled by customer at 2-3% using 3 stations of quality control points, i.e. incoming point, in-process point, and outgoing point. The majority problems occurred from human mistakes, e.g not following the work instruction, low skill, misunderstanding, and the employment of foreign workers who might not understand and dedicate to work. 
 
### 4.4. Turnover Rate  
Turnover rate was 5-10%, which was acceptable. Most of the turnover rate occurred in operation or daily-wage employees while the turnover rate from staff or salary employees were very low. Most companies were located in an area with many factories; thus, employees had an opportunity to compare the compensation, welfare, and benefits offered in the companies nearby. Consequently, the staff turnover rate is relatively high, almost the same for all companies. 
 
## 5. Discussions and Conclusions 
The company should use time and motion study to set standard time, which is needed to measure performance in all departments. In addition, the companies need to calculate the actual capacity which will result in accurate resource planning, such as number of workers, materials, machines, capacity, and working hours. Moreover, employees will sense equality. It is also advisable to create a project to improve productivity with suppliers, employees, and customers involvement such as 5S, QCC, Kaizen, TPM, TQM, ISO, SPC, and lean manufacturing system. The company should create work instructions in Thai, Burmese, Cambodian or Laos to reduce communication issues. Small but frequent order is not worthwhile to set up manufacture frequently; therefore, the companies always determine to produce high volume at once which will lead to high level of inventory. Thus, the company should focus more on forecasting and negotiation to avoid dead stock. The company should also understand their employees to maintain current employees and create attractive welfare to attract prospect employees too. Companies qualified in terms of quality, cost, and delivery will survive in fierce competition. According to the establishment of AEC, there are opportunities to create their own brands, and relocate to border area or AEC countries in order to get new customers. 
 
## 6. Acknowledgements 
The author would like to express appreciation to all participants from 40 organizations for their permissions that enabled the author to successfully carry out this research. Moreover, the author would like to say thanks to every respondent who provided priceless information for this study.   


# INVENTORY TURNOVER RATIO AS A SUPPLY CHAIN PERFORMANCE MEASURE 
 
## Abstract
Inventory management is vital in supply chain performance of a firm.  The inventory turnover ratio measures the number of times a company sells its inventory during the year. A high inventory turnover ratio indicated how best the firm is operating economically in selling its products. Inventory turnover is a measure of management's ability to use resources effectively and efficiently. Precise control and safeguarding of inventory is an essential task for a successful and well organized company. Business requires timely and accurate information on inventory location, movement and valuation. ERP systems provide data pertaining to receipt of goods, movement within and between locations, the sale, removal or disposition of goods, lot and serial tracking, precise valuation and status of goods remaining in inventory at any point of time.  As a part of its continuous improvement program (CIP), firms can focus on inventory turn ratio as a means of improving its supply chain performance.  In this context, present research is aimed to measure effect of inventory turn over ratio on supply chain performance in a leading battery manufacturing organization in India.
Keywords: Inventory turn over ratio, supply chain performance, Radio Frequency Identification
 
 
## 1. INTRODUCTION 
The success of any firm basically depends on how efficiently it is controlling its inventories existing in various forms at different stages of the operations of the firm.

In a manufacturing firm there is need for maintaining inventories to accommodate unexpected fluctuations in demand and supply.  In SCM, much of the recent debate has centered on the ability of the supply chain to be either “lean” (Womack & Jones, 1996) or “agile” (Goldman & Nagel, 1995). Lean supply chains on one hand focus on doing “more with less” by reducing waste or “muda” through inventory reduction, lean manufacturing, and a just-in-time approach. A lean approach is said to be suitable for markets characterized by predictable demand, high volume and low requirements for product variety. Agile supply chains, on the other hand, are designed for flexibility, emphasizing the supply chain’s ability to respond rapidly to changes in demand, both in terms of volume and variety.  CRM, SCM and New Product Development (NPD) identified by Shrivastava et al. (1999) reflect the demand and the supply side.  Similarly, Payne and Christopher (2002) argue that CRM and SCM processes have to be integrated in order to “provide high levels of product availability and variety, yet which are low cost and reliability”. Those contributions conceptualizing SCM from a process perspective have also stressed the need to integrate the key business processes within and between organizations (e.g. Cooper et al., 1997; Lambert & Cooper, 2000; Mentzer et al., 2001). Firstly, the integration of the customer into the value creation process was proposed by Vargo and Lusch (2004). Secondly, in line with the conceptualizations of relationship marketing and CRM, the buying cycle acknowledges the dynamics in customer relationships (Zablah et al., 2004). Thirdly, by linking the activities in the demand process with those in the supply process, guidance to implementing the process integration can be derived. 
## 2. LITERATURE REVIEW
The volume of inventories depends on procurement lead times, the firm’s purchasing strategies such as taking advantage of price discounts on bulk purchases, geographical location of suppliers, scarcity of raw materials, expected rise in prices, the accuracy of demand forecast, extent of subcontracting and service level of the firm.   By formulation of strategic partnership with suppliers, adapting vendor managed inventory strategies (Madhusudhana Rao et al., 2005), strategic sourcing decisions such as make or buy or sub-contracting, developing  supplier relations (shared vision and objectives), tracking of inventory (Ashwani Kumar, 2007), minimizing inventory inaccuracies (record keeping errors) (Elgar Fleisch, Christian Tellkamp, 2005), customer relationship management (CRM) and so on, the firm can operate with minimum levels of inventory.    In this paper, an attempt is made to study the effect of Inventory Turnover Ratio (ITR) on supply chain performance in a leading battery manufacturing firm in India.   The data required to calculate inventory turn over ratio is obtained from sales data, and inventory levels of raw materials, work in process and finished goods including those in transit and available at ware houses/market outlets. As a part of its continuous improvement program(CIP), by closely monitoring the inventory turn over ratio, the firm can continuously improve its capability to rotate money as many times as possible in a year.  
Inventory turnover is best thought of as the number of times that an inventory "turns over" or cycles through the firm in a year. Inventory turnover of 12 means the average inventory moves through the firm once per month.  For a number of years top-class companies have been focusing on supply chain management and improving their competitiveness (Supply Chain Technology news, March, 2002). They are able to demonstrate their success through improved revenue, profit margins and decreased costs. Lean is a great method to help organize work areas, reduce WIP (Work-In-Process), and speedup material flow through the entire manufacturing process. Successful Lean initiatives yield lower inventory cost, higher productivity and flexibility and faster response time to the customer.  ITR is also an important measure of performance that indicates the effective utilization of financial resources of the firm.  The inventory turnover ratio should be done by inventory categories or by individual product.  ITR is defined as the ratio of sales to average inventory with both numerator and denominator being valued at either selling price or original cost.  
Inventory for customer use is an expensive investment of company money. Instead of investing in people, technology, or other important assets that can potentially assist in growing a business faster, companies who invest in inventory have no return on net assets (RONA) until they sell the inventory. In many businesses, inventory is turning at the lowest levels in history and below industry averages.   Studies have shown that manufacturers and wholesalers have over 60 days of inventory and that retailers have over 90 days of inventory capital tied up. These times do not include inbound inventory in the supply chain. Real supply chain inventory is 25 %  higher. This is a very significant amount of capital tied up in inventory. We live in a world and culture today where we want everything now.
Information on alternative supply sources is easily available on the internet. Vendor loyalty is fleeting.   Stated another way, when a customer wants to buy something, they want it now. “Just-in-time” manufacturing and the internet has helped all of us access product information and alternative suppliers.  A supplier’s worst nightmare is not finding the product in stock that the customer wants to buy. The results are both a lost business opportunity associated with the sale of the inventory and the poor customer service associated with not meeting the customer’s immediate needs. Rapid advancements in technology and communication speed, wide use of the internet as a communicative medium, and factory automation embracing Ethernet and real-time data collection suggest that now might be the time to invest in an inventory management system, or IMS (Sexton, 2004). 
The following table provides some insight on the basics of inventory control. The information was complied by Timothy Van Mieghem of the Proaction Group.
(http://www.proactiongroup.com) Various Causes for Inventory:
-	Revisions and variance in Supply
Chain Management Inputs
-	Inadequate process norms
-	Non moving stocks
-	High lead times & batch quantities
-	Variance in material receipt 
-	Variance in consumption with actual versus Bill of Material
-	Design and type changes without valid lead time.
## 3. THE INVENTORY TURNOVER FORMULAE
Inventory turnover is a critical performance metric to assess the effectiveness of inventory management. Because it is so extensively used as a diagnostic tool, it is imperative that inventory turnover be calculated using appropriate and valid techniques. 
 
Inventory turnover is calculated using the following formula: 
- (1)
When product flow varies throughout the year and inventories expand and contract during different periods, more frequent measures of the inventory level need to be taken to generate an accurate measure of the average inventory. 
The inventory turnover often is reported as the inventory period, which is the number of the days worth of inventory on hand, calculated by dividing the inventory by the average daily cost of goods sold: 
- (2)
There are several things to keep in mind when calculating turnover ratio:
-	Only consider cost of goods sold from stock sales which are filled from warehouse inventory. Non-stock items and direct shipments are not included. Sure, these sales are important, but don’t involve your warehouse stock (i.e. your investment in inventory).
-	The cost of goods sold figure in the formula includes transfers of stocked products to other branches and quantities of these products used for internal purposes such as repairs and assemblies.
-	Inventory turnover is based on the cost of items (what you paid for them) not sales dollars (what you sold them for).
Inventory turnover depends on the average value of stocked inventory. To determine your average inventory investment:
-	Calculate the total value of every product in inventory (quantity on-hand times cost) every month, on the same day of the month. Be sure to be consistent in using the same cost basis (average cost, last cost, replacement cost, etc.) in calculating both the cost of goods sold and average inventory investment.
-	If your inventory levels tend to fluctuate throughout the month, calculate your total inventory value on the first and fifteenth of every month.
-	Determine the average inventory value by averaging of all of inventory valuations recorded during the past 12 months.
Turnover Goals:
-	As you determine your inventory turnover goals, consider the average gross margin you receive on the sale of products. Most distributors who have 20% - 30% gross margins should strive to achieve an overall turnover rate of five to six turns per year. Distributors with lower margins require higher stock turnover. If your company enjoys high gross margins, you can afford to turn your inventory less often.
-	A turnover rate of six turns per year doesn’t mean that the stock of every item will turn six times. The stock of popular, fast moving items should turn more often (up to 12 times per year). Slow moving items may turn only once, or not at all.
-	Finally, calculate inventory turnover separately for every product line in every warehouse. This will allow you to identify situations in which your inventory is not providing an adequate return on your investment. To improve inventory turnover, consider reducing the quantity you normally buy from the supplier. Inventory turns improve when you buy less of product, more often. 
-	Firms have limited funds available to invest in inventory. They cannot stock a lifetime supply of every item. In order to generate the cash necessary to pay the bills and return a profit, firms must sell the materials they’ve bought. The inventory turnover rate measures how quickly they are moving inventory through the warehouse. Combined with other measurements such as customer service level and return on investment, inventory turnover can provide an accurate barometer of firm’s success.
## 4. ITR IN INDUSTRIAL BATTERY DIVISION
The firm aimed at increasing ITR by reducing raw material inventory.  It was worthwhile because it is “critical to cost” increase in ITR will directly influence the company profits, reduce working capital and improve cash flow.  As competition is severe and product sale price is falling, it is important to focus on cost reduction so that the firm can offer at competitive price in order to keep the market share.  The goal was to increase ITR to 14.2 by reducing 25% raw material inventory of present level. 
### 4.1.Selected Solutions 
After finding the gaps in performance in terms of ITR, the firm has identified a set of alternatives to increase ITR.  The alternatives adapted for implementation are furnished below:
- a)	Revision of stocking policy of A class materials so as to maintain stocks for 15 to 20 days of consumption.
- b)	Revision of ordering policy for B & C class items as per lead time and EOQ of purchase department.
- c)	MRP computation as per 1 + 2
months production plan
- d)	To reduce the forecast variance of
marketing (Market Research Information)
- e)	Information on design and type changes with valid lead time and clear action to dilute existing stocks.
Implementation of the above alternatives has improved the ITR of battery division tremendously in the past three years.  The ITR trend of battery division for the past three financial years is shown in the following graph (Figure 1). 
From the above chart, it is clear that the
ITR is increasing continuously in the past three years.  We have one more measure of performance called Inventory Days of Supply (IDS).  The expression for IDS is given (Pandey, 2000):
Inventory Days of Supply = 365 / ITR  (3) 
Using the above relation if we calculate
the IDS values for the past three years, we can find out how the inventory days of supply is decreasing with increased ITR values.  
The following table (Table 2) shows the improvement in IDS with corresponding ITR values.


## 5. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE SCOPE
	Many 	researches 	revealed 	that
Information Technology, internal operations, customer and supplier relationship and information sharing significantly influenced inventory turnover performance.  To achieve high inventory turnover companies need to improve their internal efficiency through elimination of non value added activities and excessive inventories. This can be achieved by effectively implementing IT in all operational activities. In addition, companies	also need to go beyond their internal operations to work closely with their external counterpart both upstream and downstream their supply chain. Close coordination amongst members of a supply chain is facilitated by high level of information sharing.  Through EDI, firms can integrate their activities and work hand in hand with collaborative forecasting and replenishment to maintain minimum level of inventory throughout the supply chain for the competitive advantage of all companies along the chain.
